# Best-Defender-in-College-Basketball
This is a project to try and determine who is the best wing defender in college basketball. 
The dataset consists of college basketball players in the Big Ten, Big 12, ACC, SEC, Pac 12, and Big East conferences for the 2019-2020 season. 
The data was collected from https://www.sports-reference.com/cbb/.

I used K means clustering to cluster players into groups based on these defensive metrics. I created 3 clusters and chose the cluster that had the lowest mean defensive rating with the most minutes per game.Unlike the statistic of defensive plus/minus, which measures the overall points scored on the court with a specific player in the game, defensive rating measures how many points are scored due to a specific player’s individual defensive mistake. Therefore, a player who plays more minutes with a low defensive rating would signify an elite wing defender.

I sorted the list by defensive rating because it is a metric that most closely measures individual defense. According to my clustering model, one could make an argument for any of these players as the top wing defender in the NCAA. However, there are different players on this list. Onyeka Okongwu, Xavier Tillman, T.J. Holyfield, and Spencer Jones are all forwards who can play inside and out, but mainly play in the paint. On the other hand, there are players like Tyrell Terry, Casey Morsell, and Jahmi'us Ramsey who are young freshman who have had really nice starts to their college careers. Since my dataset only encompasses roughly half of the 2019-2020 season these freshman do not have a lot of games played to determine how good of a defender they truly are, but they are off to a great start.

There is not a perfect metric to measure how well someone plays defense. Clustering these players allowed myself to see which players share great defensive attributes, but the one player who I would say is the best wing defender in the college basketball is Xavier Tillman from Michigan State. He is a versatile defender who can switch onto guards, blocks shots (7.3% block percentage), has quick hands (2.1% steal percentage), grabs rebounds (21.1 defensive rebound percentage), and impacts each possesion on the defensive end of the floor (5.2 defensive win shares).
